How-to guide on Uninstalling Radius (#996)
radius-project/docs: docs/content/guides/operations/kubernetes/kubernetes-uninstall/index.md

---
type: docs

> title: "How-To: Uninstall Radius"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "How-To: Uninstall Radius from Kubernetes"
```

linkTitle: "Uninstall Radius"

> description: "Learn how to uninstall Radius control plane and rad cli"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to uninstall Radius control plane from your Kubernetes cluster"
```

weight: 400
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["Kubernetes"]
---

## Prerequisites

- [Radius installed on Kubernetes cluster]({{< ref "guides/operations/kubernetes/kubernetes-install" >}})

## Step 1: Uninstall the Radius control-plane from your kubernetes cluster

To uninstall the existing Radius control-plane, run the following command:

```bash
rad uninstall kubernetes
```

> All the Radius services running in the `radius-system` namespace will be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

All the Radius services running in the `radius-system` namespace will be removed. Note that Radius configuration and data will still be persisted in the cluster until the namespace is also deleted.
```

## Step 2: Delete the `radius-system` namespace

To delete the `radius-system` namespace, run the following command:

```bash
kubectl delete namespace radius-system
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

All Radius configuration and data will be removed as part of the namespace. This completely removes from your cluster.

```

## Step 3: Remove the rad CLI

> You can remove the rad CLI by deleting the binary and ~/.rad folder from your machine.

Reviewer: I think a dedicated how-to guide under the tooling section would be helpful. We can link to that via a "Further reading" section here

Author: Not sure if this requires a dedicated a "how-to" for removing rad cli as it is simply deletion of the binary and rad folder

---
type: docs
title: "How-To: Uninstall Radius from Kubernetes"
linkTitle: "Uninstall Radius"
description: "Learn how to uninstall Radius control plane from your Kubernetes cluster"
weight: 400
categories: "How-To"
tags: ["Kubernetes"]
---

## Prerequisites

- [Radius installed on Kubernetes cluster]({{< ref "guides/operations/kubernetes/kubernetes-install" >}})

## Step 1: Uninstall the Radius control-plane from your kubernetes cluster

To uninstall the existing Radius control-plane, run the following command:

```bash
rad uninstall kubernetes
```

All the Radius services running in the `radius-system` namespace will be removed. Note that Radius configuration and data will still be persisted in the cluster until the namespace is also deleted.

## Step 2: Delete the `radius-system` namespace

To delete the `radius-system` namespace, run the following command:

```bash
kubectl delete namespace radius-system
```

All Radius configuration and data will be removed as part of the namespace. This completely removes from your cluster.

## Step 3: Remove the rad CLI

> You can remove the rad CLI by deleting the binary and ~/.rad folder from your machine.

Reviewer: Could you add bullets for Linux/Windows, or link to the CLI documentation that shows where the path is: `/guides/tooling/rad-cli/overview/#binary-location`

> You can remove the rad CLI by deleting the binary and ~/.rad folder from your machine.

Author: ```suggestion
You can remove the rad CLI by deleting the [binary]
({{< ref "/guides/tooling/rad-cli/overview/#binary-location" >}}) and ~/.rad folder from your machine.
```
